DOCUMENTATION LAB 3:

The goal of this lab was to build a linear regression model from the ground up using gradient descent. 
We structured our code like a real-world machine learning library, focusing on clean, modular design.


In the implementation of Lab 3, we applied several core object-oriented programing principles that we have seen in class such 
as Encapsulation, Reuse of methods and efficiency. 


1. Model class:

Of course it will reuse the constructor of Vector class to initialize dthe vector attribute in the model class. 

In order to compute the final predicted output using the parameters vector in the model class we applied directly the method 
defined in the vector class (DotProduct) in order to perform the prediction. 

Finally the update method uses the getter methods from the Vector class, letting us manipulate the hidden data without breaking
encapsulation.


2. Algorithm class:

This class performs reuse property by reusing the Dataset class, since the method gradient() retrieves the list of records by 
calling: List<Record> records = dataset.getData();

And it also uses dataset.getDim() in the solve() method to automatically adapt the model’s parameter size to the dataset 
dimensionality, enhancing modularity and flexibility.

Reusing the Record class: each Record provides structured access to both inputs and outputs:
record.getInput()
record.getOutput()

More efficient and reuses the code so avoids direct handling of raw arrays and leverages encapsulation from the Record class.
And the same idea of this reusing is applied thorought the code in Algorithm class. 

3. SupervisedLearner class: 

Reusing the Algorithm class: 
this.model = this.algorithm.solve(this.dataset);
This line reuses the entire gradient descent procedure already defined in Algorithm. The SupervisedLearner does not need to 
handle optimization logic, it simply calls the method.

Reusing the Dataset class:
int dimension = d.getDim();
this.model = new Model(dimension + 1);
By calling getDim(), it automatically adapts to any dataset structure, illustrating flexible and reusable design.

Reusing the Model class: 
return this.model.predict(augmented);
which leverages the model’s existing prediction mechanism based on its parameters.

Reusing the Vector class: 
Vector augmented = x.augment();
This avoids reimplementing input preprocessing logic.


Finally, composition:

The class is built entirely through composition, which means it has an Algorithm (optimizes), has a Dataset (manages data), 
and has a Model (predicts).

This division of tasks makes the system modular and supports code reuse at every level.


So, to conclude, the SupervisedLearner class doesn’t redefine any algorithms, data structures, or mathematical operations.
Instead, it reuses existing functionality, showing a clear example of high-level abstraction and composition-based reuse.


At the end of this lab, we tried to do the Optional: Moore-Penrose inverse, but while trying to do so, we realized it was too 
difficult/complex (mainly because it involved external libraries for matrix computation) so we decided to not do it.